Add documentation for Clusters (#1960)
buildkite/docs: pages/agent/clusters.md

Only Buildkite admins or users with the [“change organization” permission][permissions] can create clusters.

Afterwards, you can assign other users or teams as a cluster’s maintainers to permit them to manage the cluster. Cluster maintainers can:

* Update or delete the cluster
* Manage cluster agent tokens
* Add or remove pipelines to the cluster

To add a maintainer to a cluster:

1. Navigate to the cluster’s _Maintainers_
2. Select a user or team
3. Click _Add Maintainer_

[permissions]: /docs/pipelines/permissions

## Using clusters alongside unclustered agents and pipelines

Enabling clusters will not impact any of your existing agents or pipelines, or otherwise require any workflow-breaking changes to try.

Once you’ve enabled clusters, all members of your organization will see _Clusters_ in the global navigation. This will show all your clusters as well as _Unclustered_ agents and pipelines.

To view and manage your unclustered agents, agent tokens and pipelines (in other words, not connected to any cluster), click _Unclustered._

To view all running agents in your organization (in a cluster or not), click on _All agents_ in the sidebar.

## Migrating to clusters

> You can create clusters through the Buildkite dashboard, the REST API, or the GraphQL API.

Reviewer: I'm going to remove this line until we have both REST API and GraphQL API documentation to link to.

# Clusters

Clusters are a new way of managing your Buildkite agents. They allow teams to self-manage their agent pools, let admins create isolated sets of agents and pipelines within the one Buildkite organization, and help to make agents and queues more discoverable across your organization.

You can turn on clusters for your organization if you have an administrator role through Organization Settings >> Pipeline Settings. Once you turn it on, you won’t be able to turn it back off.

## What's changed?

* Clusters are viewable to your entire organization, allowing engineers to understand better what agents and queues are available in their pipelines.
* You can grant cluster-admin access to individual users or teams to allow them to self-administer their own sets of agents. Cluster admins can create and delete queues, access agent tokens, and add and remove pipelines.

> * Queues can be created within a cluster and validated when a pipeline's configuration is saved during pipeline upload, and when a new agent connects. This helps to make queues more discoverable to pipeline authors and helps to prevent ghost jobs that never run because they had a typo in their pipeline.yml's queue name.

Author: >  because they had a typo in their pipeline.yml's queue name.

I don't think we need this bit

Reviewer: Keeping this benefit in place but rephrasing slightly sounds good to me 👍🏼

The following diagram shows the architecture difference after enabling clusters.

<%= image "clusters-architecture.png", alt: "Diagram showing existing architecture and architecture with clusters" %>

In the diagram, you'll see that clusters encapsulate groups of agents and pipelines. These groups enable the following behaviors:

* Clusters are viewable to your entire organization, allowing engineers to understand better what agents and queues are available in their pipelines.
* You can grant cluster-admin access to individual users or teams to let them self-administer their own sets of agents. Cluster admins can create and delete queues, access agent tokens, and add and remove pipelines.
* Queues can be created within a cluster and validated when a pipeline's configuration is saved during pipeline upload, and when a new agent connects. This helps to make queues more discoverable to pipeline authors and helps to prevent ghost jobs that never run because they had a typo in their pipeline.yml's queue name.

> * Pipelines now belong to a cluster. Pipelines can only schedule jobs on the cluster it belongs to and can only trigger builds on pipelines in the same cluster.

Reviewer 2: Can pipelines be unclustered? Should this be saying that you can add pipelines to clusters?

Reviewer: Yes, pipelines can also be unclustered. So perhaps some light rephrasing here would help. Something like this? "Pipelines can belong to a cluster. Such pipelines can only schedule jobs..."

## Enabling clusters

> Any administrator can enable clusters for an organization. Note that once enabled, you can't disable clusters.

Reviewer: > Note that once enabled, you can't disable clusters.

For this last sentence, I wonder if we'd be better off mirroring the words we use in our opt-in UI:

> Once enabled, you can only disable Clusters by contacting support.

To enable clusters:

1. Navigate to the [organization's pipeline settings](https://buildkite.com/organizations/~/pipeline-settings).
1. In _Clusters_, select _Enable Clusters_.
1. In the modal that opens, select _Enable Clusters_ to confirm.

_Clusters_ appears in the global navigation.

## Using clusters

We've built clusters in a way that shouldn't affect any of your existing agents or pipelines or require any breaking changes to try out. Once enabled, all members of your organization will see _Clusters_ in the global navigation.

Your agents display under their cluster or in the unclustered view:

<%= image "clusters-views.png", alt: "Image showing clustered and unclustered views" %>

> You can still access your agent and its count by selecting _Clusters_ > _All Agents_.

Reviewer 2: I edited this based on the designs and what was written, but it might not be right. Is the count always visible in the sidebar?

Reviewer: @mbelton-buildkite Yes, the agents count is always visible in the sidebar when you visit the Clusters area.

> Once you create a cluster, copy the auto-generated token for your agents and add it to the agents in the cluster. If you want to use a custom token, edit the token in the Agent Tokens tab:

Reviewer 2: Oops, I missed fixing the syntax here:

```suggestion
Once you create a cluster, copy the auto-generated token for your agents and add it to the agents in the cluster. If you want to use a custom token, edit the token in the _Agent Tokens_ tab:
```

<%= image "agent-registration-tokens-views.png", alt: "Image showing Agent Tokens view" %>

> You can add teams and individual users under Maintainers for that cluster.

Reviewer 2: As we discussed, it would be good to add the "why" behind doing this. Permissions/access control, good thing etc :)

Reviewer: +1

Clusters encapsulate groups of agents and pipelines. This enables the following:

* Clusters are viewable to your entire organization, allowing engineers to better understand the agents and queues available for their pipelines.
* Individual users or teams can maintain their own clusters. Cluster maintainers can manage queues and agent tokens and add and remove pipelines.
* Pipelines can be assigned to a cluster, ensuring their builds run only on the agents connected to this cluster. These pipelines can also trigger builds only on other pipelines in the same cluster.

## Enabling clusters

Any Buildkite administrator can enable clusters for an organization. Once you enable clusters, you can only disable it by contacting support.

To enable clusters:

1. Navigate to your [organization’s pipeline settings](https://buildkite.com/organizations/~/pipeline-settings).
1. In _Clusters_, select _Enable Clusters_.

_Clusters_ will now appear in the global navigation.

## Setting up a cluster

To set up a new cluster:

1. Navigate to _Clusters_
2. Click _Create a Cluster_
3. Enter a name, description and emoji

> 4. Click _Create Cluster_

Reviewer: Thanks for the list formatting and interaction wording tips! I'll remember these for next time.

I do have a question about "Select" being used for pressing a button, however. When I see "select", I think about selecting from a _range_ of things (e.g. a list or a dropdown of some kind). In this light, is using "Select" here potentially a little confusing? Would something like "Press _Create Cluster_" more clearly convey the intention while avoiding pointer vs touch interaction specificities?

Genuinely keen for your thoughts here!

(Of course, I'm all in favour of consistency here, so if "Select" is indeed our house style here and there's no room for budging, I'll just go ahead. For the time being I'm changing this to "Select" as you suggest.)

> 4. Click _Create Cluster_

Reviewer: OTOH, I realise that "Press" would probably only work well for things visually styled like buttons. I could imagine it being confusing in its own way if we used it to describe clicking a regular-looking _link._

So I can see how "Select" solves for the union of these needs in a better overall way.

> 4. Click _Create Cluster_

Reviewer 2: I'm planning to move us more towards an industry-standard style guide like the [Microsoft style guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/).

For click:

> Avoid this verb, which is specific to using a mouse. Instead, use verbs that work with multiple devices, such as select.
> It's OK to use click when you need to describe mouse actions specifically.

For press:

> Use only to describe pushing a physical button on hardware.

### Setting up queues

When you create your first cluster, it will have an initial “default” queue.

To create additional queues:

1. Navigate to the cluster’s _Queues_
2. Click _Create a Queue_
3. Enter a key and description
4. Click _Create Queue_

> You should [supply the queue’s key][agent-queue-key] to the agents that you wish to run build jobs on the queue.

Reviewer: Yeah, I agree this could do with a wholesale rethink :)

How about this? I started with your second suggestion, but moved agents to the start of the sentence to emphasise that the sentence itself is about setting up those agents.

> For agents to run jobs in a particular queue, [supply the queue’s key][agent-queue-key] to the agents.

> You should [supply the queue’s key][agent-queue-key] to the agents that you wish to run build jobs on the queue.

Reviewer 2: Nice! That's better

[agent-queue-key]: /docs/agent/v3/queues#setting-an-agents-queue

> ### Using cluster agent tokens
> 
> Once you’ve created your cluster and queues, navigate to the cluster’s _Agent tokens_, copy the auto-generated token and [use this token][agent-use-token] for the agents you wish to connect to the cluster.
> 
> You can also create, edit, and revoke other agent tokens here.
> 
> [agent-use-token]: /docs/agent/v3/tokens#using-and-storing-tokens

Reviewer 2: I think this assumes you already know what you're doing. What do you think of reframing this to be about connecting an agent to a cluster? Thinking something like:

```suggestion
### Connect agents to a cluster

Agents are associated with a cluster through the cluster's agent token.

To connect an agent:

1. Navigate to the cluster's Agent tokens.
1. Copy the auto-generated token.
1. [Use the token](/docs/agent/v3/tokens#using-and-storing-tokens) with the relevant agent.

You can also create, edit, and revoke other agent tokens from the cluster's Agent tokens.
```

Reviewer: Yeah, I think this is great, and I'm inclined to combine this kind of section along with the details about using the queue keys too. Give me 5 and I'll have it pushed up to #1983.

### Adding pipelines to a cluster

Add a pipeline to a cluster to ensure the pipeline’s builds run only on agents connected to that cluster.

To add a pipeline to a cluster:

1. Navigate to the _Pipeline Settings_ for the pipeline.
1. Under _Cluster Settings_, select the relevant cluster.

### Adding maintainers to a cluster

> Only Buildkite administrators or users with the [“change organization” permission][permissions] can create clusters.

Reviewer 2: Again avoiding quotation marks here:

```suggestion
Only Buildkite administrators or users with the [_change organization_ permission][permissions] can create clusters.
```

> Afterwards, you can assign other users or teams as a cluster’s maintainers to permit them to manage the cluster. Cluster maintainers can:

Reviewer 2: After what?

```suggestion
You can assign other users or teams as a cluster’s maintainers to permit them to manage the cluster. Cluster maintainers can:
```

Reviewer: The "after" here is after creating the cluster. But I can see how this is redundant.

That said, there is definitely a _sequence_ that I was hoping to imply here:

1. You need to be an _admin_ user to create the cluster in the first place
2. After creating the cluster, you can assign maintainers so that _non-admin_ users can manage it

If I could make one tweak to your suggestion, I would possibly make it:

> You can **then** assign...

(emphasis to show the added word)

What do you reckon? Any other possible approaches to emphasise how assigning cluster maintainers allows otherwise unprivileged users to be able to manage a cluster?

Reviewer: "After" here is after creating the cluster, but I can see how that's not necessary. Adjusted!

Reviewer 2: Ahhhh okay, I don't think that ordering is super clear. Hmmm. Maybe:

> After a cluster is created, you can ...

I also wonder whether this section should be more general to "Cluster permissions" rather than just maintainers. 🤔

> * Update or delete the cluster
> * Manage cluster agent tokens
> * Add or remove pipelines to the cluster

Reviewer 2: Missing periods.

```suggestion
* Update or delete the cluster.
* Manage cluster agent tokens.
* Add or remove pipelines to the cluster.
```

To add a maintainer to a cluster:

> 1. Navigate to the cluster’s _Maintainers_
> 2. Select a user or team
> 3. Click _Add Maintainer_

Reviewer 2: As previously mentioned:

```suggestion
1. Navigate to the cluster’s _Maintainers_.
1. Select a user or team.
1. Select _Add Maintainer_.
```

[permissions]: /docs/pipelines/permissions

> ## Using clusters alongside unclustered agents and pipelines

Reviewer 2: I think this information comes too late in the page. How about including it in the _Enabling clusters_ section?

Reviewer: Perfect location for it!

Reviewer: I've also tweaked the opening sentence from (emphasis on changed words):

> Enabling clusters will not impact any of your existing agents or pipelines, nor will **it** require any workflow-breaking changes for you to try clusters.

To:

> Enabling clusters will not impact any of your existing agents or pipelines, nor will **you** require any workflow-breaking changes for you to try clusters.

Reviewer 2: I think my brain might be a bit fried at this stage, but I think the first one is correct? "it" = the action of enabling clusters

Enabling clusters will not impact any of your existing agents or pipelines, nor will it require any workflow-breaking changes for you to try clusters.

Once you’ve enabled clusters, all members of your organization will see _Clusters_ in the global navigation. This will show all your clusters as well as _Unclustered_ agents and pipelines.

> To view and manage your unclustered agents, agent tokens and pipelines (in other words, not connected to any cluster), click _Unclustered._

Reviewer 2: Avoiding the parentheses:

```suggestion
Any agents or pipelines not associated with a cluster are called _unclustered_. To view and manage your unclustered agents, agent tokens, and pipelines, select Unclustered.
```

To view all running agents in your organization (in a cluster or not), click on _All agents_ in the sidebar.

> ## Migrating to clusters

Reviewer 2: Similarly, I wonder if this should be included in an existing section. Perhaps _Setting up a cluster_. What do you think?

Reviewer: Yeah, I'm happy with _Setting up a cluster._ What I've done is just left this at the bottom of the section, so I've put an additional `#` in front of the header and no more :)
